Add search pipeline documentation (#4204)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/search-pipelines/rename-field-processor.md

---
layout: default
title: Rename field processor
nav_order: 20
has_children: false
parent: Search pipelines
grand_parent: Search
---

# Rename field processor

> Rename field processor is part of search pipeline functionality. Search pipelines is an experimental feature. For updates on the progress of search pipelines, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/6278).    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rename field processor is part of the functionality of a search pipeline, which is an experimental feature. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/6278).    
```

{: .warning}

> The `rename_field` search response processor intercepts a search response and renames the specified field. This is useful when your index and your application have different names for the same field. For example, if you rename a field in your index, the `rename_field` processor can change the new name to the old one before sending the response to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `rename_field` search response processor intercepts a search response and renames the specified field. This is useful when your index and your application use different names for the same field. For example, if you rename a field in your index, the `rename_field` processor can change the new name to the old one before sending the response to your application.
```

## Request fields

The following table lists all available request fields.

Field | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`field` | String | The field to rename. Required.
`target_field` | String | The new field name. Required.
`tag` | String | The processor's identifier. 

> `description` | String | Description of the processor. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`description` | String | A description of the processor. 
```

## Example 

The following example demonstrates using a search pipeline with a `rename_field` processor.

### Setup

> Create an index `my_index` and index a document with the field `message`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an index named `my_index` and index a document with the field `message`:
```

```json
POST /my_index/_doc/1
{
  "message": "This is a public message", 
  "visibility":"public"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Creating a search pipeline 

The following request creates a search pipeline with a `rename_field` response processor that renames the field `message` to `notification`:

```json
PUT /_search/pipeline/my_pipeline
{
  "response_processors": [
    {
      "rename_field": {
        "field": "message",
        "target_field": "notification"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Using a search pipeline

> Search for documents in `my_index` without search pipelines:

Reviewer: Same comment as in previous file

  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 2,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "my_index",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 1.0,
        "_source" : {
          "message" : "This is a public message",
          "visibility" : "public"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
</details>

To search with a pipeline, specify the pipeline name in the `search_pipeline` query parameter:

```json
GET /my_index/_search?search_pipeline=my_pipeline
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The `message` field has been renamed to `notification`:

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Response
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta}
```json
{
  "took" : 2,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 0.0,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "my_index",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 0.0,
        "_source" : {
          "visibility" : "public",
          "notification" : "This is a public message"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
</details>

> You can also use the `fields` option to search for specific fields in the document:

Reviewer: Confirm that it shouldn't be "a" document.
